Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another Dorelle on this course, on Ruby and in this area
we will see how to sort the elements that are stored in a single area.
So sorting data is a common practice.
You may need to advertise a list of names are sort the numbers from smallest to the largest.
Now, Ruby arrays have a reverse method which can reverse the order of the elements in an error.
If you have a list of data that is already organized and the reverse is going to be a quick way to flip
the elements around.
So if you have this very same area, then all you can do is that just initialize one more variable,
RTV, and just write in and start reverse on this.
And down here, just right and thoughts are around the school and you can see that the elements have
been just river, as you can see that it starts from Eddie c.B and a which are totally in reverse order,
as you can see right over here.
Now, the reverse method basically returns a new era and it does not modify the original.
Now, if you use the reverse with an exclamation mark method, then you can just have a change in the
original area as well.
However, reversing an error is not always the most efficient or practical way to sort the data.
We have to use the same method to start the elements in that area.
You would like for simple arrays of strings or in numbers.
Let's say Assad method is efficient and it will give you the result you are looking for.
So if you have an error in which you have goal, let's say unsorted elements, then what it is going
to do is that it is going to start the element.
So if you have, let's say AC and we have these, then we have got let's say Blackhill.
And then we have got EOA here and finally we have got its EFO here.
Let's just change this to and this to eat so you can see that they are not in order.
All you can do is that just right in the dark matter for this right in the fall.
This to be Asadi that look much more like what we are doing.
So right in Ezzati Oakhill.
Run the scoreboard and you can see that the elements have been arranged.
You can see A, B, C, D, E, F, or here you can see that it is A, B, E, and a lot of different
things.
But out here, you can see that the area has been sorted out in a very beautiful and organized way.
Now, holler if you want to start things a different way, you will want to call this, you will want
to tell the secret method how to do that because, for example, you don't want it to get started in
this way.
What the solid function is going to do is that it is going to also ask you that how you want to sort
that sort method takes are will be blocked.
That gives you access to the elements in an array so you can compare them as well to do the comparison
you use.
The comparison operator often referred to as the spaceship operator.
This operator, compare that to Ruby objects and return minus one.
If the object on the left is smaller and it returns, a zero of the objects are the same and it returns
one if the object on the left side is greater.
So to give you a summary of what I'm talking, let's just write in certain comments over here.
So if you have, let's say, a one on this side, then you have this spaceship comparison operator that
is something like this and you've got this dual hill.
Then you have another condition in which you have got, let's say.
Do a hill and you have got this to over here as well, and then the final condition is that the elements
on the left hand side is now greater.
So let's say it is due this time.
And this element of war here is one, so the expected output for this is going to be minus one for this,
it is going to be zero.
And for this O'Haire, it is going to be plus one.
So if the value on the right hand side is greater than the left hand side, then minus one is going
to be redone.
If the values on the left hand side and the right hand side are equal, then it is going to return zero.
And if the value on the left hand side is greater and the right hand side is smaller than it is going
to return one.
So the Ruby Sword method, except a block that must return either minus one, either a zero or it will
return a one which it.
Then uses to start the values in the area.
So now let's see an example that explicitly compares the entries in the area to start them in ascending
order.
So what you can do here is that you can just simply compare.
But for that, we need, let's say, some different elements so that things are much more clear.
So let's say we have the elements as.
Names of animals, let's say you've got Tiger, then we have got let's say.
Great White.
Then let's say we have got so these are basically random entries.
And let's say finally, we have got a table over here.
So these are basically some random entries.
Let's just make it to tables so that it is from a different character, not from the if you do it completely
fine, it will sort it as well.
But we want it to be from a different character.
So now what you can do is that you can use the comparison operator over here using the search function.
So SRT is going to be the same exact sort.
And what you have to do here is that you want to use to excess from this and want to compare them.
So for that, where you have to do is that you have to write in bars and in that you're trying to use
that.
And B, are those values what you want to compare for the first time and what you're going to write
and you're going to write and you're going to write in the comparison operator and you're going to write
and be.
That what you can simply do is that you have to write in print SRT and that is going to do your job
or underscored and it is going to just sort your error in ascending order.
As you can see that you've got Abel and you've got the one starting with G, then you've got the one
sided with Edge and finally you've got the one starting with a D..
So basically here are the eight and B variables represent the individual elements in the area that are
compared one by one.
And the result looks something like this, as you can see on the atom or there as well.
Now, to sort this very same array and you want to just sort it adopted that.
You want to reverse its order as well, then you can reverse the objects in the comparison operator.
You can just write in Bohle and you can just write an e-mail here.
And that is going to just sort this area in reverse order.
Just run it.
And you can see that now Tiger is at the top, hammer at at second, Redway the third, and Able is
at the lowest position.
So now they have been started and you can see a descending order.
Now, the start method is great for areas that contain simple data like integer floats and string,
but when errors contain more complex object, you will have to do a lot more work.
But what you can do is that you can have an array of hashes with each hash representing element that
is stored in this area.
So you can have this very same area.
What you can do is that you can convert it into a hash and what is a hash that will be covered in the
next section.
But for now, all you need to do is that you have to write in.
This will then you have to ride in this whole here again.
This here again, and just remove the last entry from here.
So these are the three entries, we can just put an entry so that they are much more visible.
All right.
So there are now much more visible.
So basically what this is, this is basically the key and this is the value that is associated with
this key.
This is, again, the key.
And these are the values, respectively, with these keys.
So starting this with the sword function is not going to be easy.
Calling sort on the area is going to simplify.
So if you just do it like this, run this code, it is going to generate an error message for you.
And the error message is basically that it says warning name is duplicated and overwritten on line to
name is duplicated in a an online tree again.
So in order to do the comparison, we will have to tell us our function, what we want to compare,
so we will compare the values of the goal here.
So we will double the star function that basically this is a hash over here and we want to compare hashes
over here.
So what you are going to write in that this warrior, that is the argument that is going to be received
in this function is going to be the very same and we are going to be the values.
But in the comparison operator, we have to tell it that we want to compare guey of the hashes here.
And this is basically the key of the hash we want to compare.
So to compare, what you can do is that you can just first just change into the previous case.
That was to.
Just assemble it in The Ascender.
You have to ride in it, and after that, what do you have to ride and you have to ride in this square
brackets and in that you have to ride in Colin.
And then you have to write in the name of the key and finally O'Haire, you have to also and call an
Namoa here and now just run it.
And it is again generating an error, which you should not have.
And it says that it is, again, just deduplication error, sorry, my bad, you have to ride in these
curly brackets around each of them because four in a single area and in not in this what it is going
to do, it is going to treat all of these are single and that's why it is going to generate an error.
That's his duplication of the key, because a key is always unique in the single brackets we have specified
overhead.
These are the brackets.
So.
If you want to specify two elements in a single curly bracket that has to be with a different name,
if it is not, then it is going to generate this error.
And I guess now it is going to run perfectly fine.
And you can see that it has and you can see that you've got great white, then you've got Hammerhead
and then you have got DelGrosso.
The array has been sorted out and that was how to just organize an area or you can set up an area which
contains hashes.
So you did it way by using the key in the hash.
So when you are working with more complex structure, you might want to look at the start by method
instead, which instead of this Sard function, which uses a more efficient algorithm for sorting the
sword by, takes a blog that only requires one argument that is the reference to the current elements
in the area.
So if you want to have such kind of complex structure get started and you can use the SA by function
in place of the search function and that is a bit more easier than the SA function.
So for that, you have to write and sort of underscore biological.
And after that, what do you have to do is that you have only specified in one argument, so you're
going to write and let's say Hill and then you're going to write in X since you are using hashes over
here.
So you're going to just write an X column Namoa.
He'll just print it out, run this and it is going to generate the very same output.
So the third by method implements a.
Different algorithm that is known as the short scene transform, which is basically a sorting algorithm
best suited for comparing objects based on the value of a specific key, therefore, you will find yourself
using Saadeh by whenever comparing a collection of objects as it is much more efficient than the search
function.
Now both the sword and the sword by basically return new areas, leaving the original area intact.
If you want to modify the original area, the very same logic, you can just go on with Sard and start
by with an exclamation mark.
Now addition, in addition to starting values, you might also want to do a lot of things more with
arrows.
And that is what we will be discussing in the next tutorial.
So far, this tutorial, I guess that's it.
I hope you now know how to sort the elements, how to use the sword, how to use the sword by function,
and how to just start the element that is a bit more complex, that contains hashes and how to sort
it with the help of keys.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.